Janky
=====

This is Janky, a continuous integration server built on top of
[Jenkins][], controlled by [Hubot][], and designed for [GitHub][].

* **Built on top of Jenkins.** The power, vast amount of plugins and large
  community of the popular CI server all wrapped up in a great experience.

* **Controlled by Hubot.** Day to day operations are exposed as simple
  Hubot commands that the whole team can use.

* **Designed for GitHub.** Janky creates the appropriate [web hooks][w] for
  you and the web app restricts access to members of your GitHub organization.

[GitHub]: https://github.com
[Hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[Jenkins]: http://jenkins-ci.org
[w]: http://developer.github.com/v3/repos/hooks/

Hubot Usage
-----------

Start by setting up a new Jenkins job and GitHub web hook for a
repository:

    hubot ci setup github/janky

The `setup` command can safely be run over and over again. It won't do
anything unless it needs to. It takes an optional name argument:

    hubot ci setup github/janky janky-ruby1.9.2

All branches are built automatically on push. Disable auto build with:

    hubot ci toggle janky

Run the command again to re-enable it. Force a build of the master
branch:

    hubot ci build janky

Of a specific branch:

    hubot ci build janky/libgit2

Different builds aren't relevant to the same Campfire room and so Janky
lets you choose where notifications are sent to. First get a list of
available rooms:

    hubot ci rooms

Then pick one:

    hubot ci set janky room The Serious Room

Get the status of a build:

    hubot ci status janky

Specific branch:

    hubot ci status janky/libgit2

All builds:

    hubot ci status

Finally, get a quick reference of the available commands with:

    hubot ci?

Installing
----------

### Jenkins

Janky requires access to a Jenkins server. Version **1.427** is
recommended. Refer to the Jenkins [documentation][doc] for installation
instructions and install the [Notification Plugin][np] version 1.4.

[doc]: https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Installing+Jenkins
[np]: https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Notification+Plugin

### Deploying

Janky is designed to be deployed to [Heroku](https://heroku.com).

Grab all the necessary files from [the gist][gist]:

    $ git clone git://gist.github.com/1497335 janky

Then push up it to a new Heroku app:

    $ cd janky
    $ heroku create --stack cedar
    $ bundle install
    $ git add Gemfile.lock
    $ git commit Gemfile.lock -m 'Adding required Gemfile.lock file for Heroku deploy'
    $ git push heroku master

After configuring the app (see below), create the database:

    $ heroku run rake db:migrate

[gist]: https://gist.github.com/1497335

### Configuring

Janky is configured using environment variables. Use the `heroku config`
command:

    $ heroku config:add VARIABLE=value

Required settings:

* `JANKY_BASE_URL`: The application URL with a trailing slash. Example:
  `http://mf-doom-42.heroku.com/`.
* `JANKY_BUILDER_DEFAULT`: The Jenkins server URL with a trailing slash.
   Example: `http://jenkins.example.com/`.
* `JANKY_CONFIG_DIR`: Directory where build config templates are stored.
  Typically set to `/app/config` on Heroku.
* `JANKY_HUBOT_USER`: Login used to protect the Hubot API.
* `JANKY_HUBOT_PASSWORD`: Password for the Hubot API.
* `JANKY_GITHUB_USER`: The login of the GitHub user used to access the
  API. Requires Push and Pull privileges.
* `JANKY_GITHUB_PASSWORD`: The password for the GitHub user.
* `JANKY_GITHUB_HOOK_SECRET`: Secret used to sign hook requests from
  GitHub.
* `JANKY_CHAT_DEFAULT_ROOM`: The name of the room where notifications
  are sent by default. Example: "Builds".

The proper Chat Service adapter will be loaded based on the value
set for `JANKY_CHAT_SERVICE`.  defaults to 'campfire'.

Valid adapters include:

Campfire:

* `JANKY_CAMPFIRE_ACCOUNT`: The name of your Campfire account.
* `JANKY_CAMPFIRE_TOKEN`: The authentication token of the user sending
  build notifications.

HipChat:

* `JANKY_HIPCHAT_TOKEN`: The authentication token of the user sending
  build notifications.
* `JANKY_HIPCHAT_FROM`: Name that messages will appear be sent from; defaults to 'CI'

To restrict access to members of a GitHub organization, [register a new
OAuth application on GitHub](https://github.com/account/applications)
with the callback set to `$JANKY_BASE_URL/auth/github/callback` then set
a few extra settings:

* `JANKY_SESSION_SECRET`: Random session cookie secret. Typically
  generated by a tool like `pgwen`.
* `JANKY_AUTH_CLIENT_ID`: The client ID of the OAuth application.
* `JANKY_AUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`: The client secret of the OAuth application.
* `JANKY_AUTH_ORGANIZATION`: The organization name. Example: "github".

### Hubot

Install the [janky script](http://git.io/hubot-janky) in your Hubot
then set the `HUBOT_JANKY_URL` environment variable. Example:
`http://user:secret@janky.example.com/_hubot/`, with user and password
replaced by `JANKY_HUBOT_USER` and `JANKY_HUBOT_PASSWORD` repectively.

### Custom Build Configuration

The default build command should suffice for most Ruby applications:

    $ bundle install --path vendor/gems --binstubs
    $ bundle exec rake

For more control you can add a `script/cibuild` at the root of your
repository for Jenkins to execute instead.

For total control, whole Jenkins' `config.xml` files can be associated
with Janky builds. Given a build called `windows`, Janky will try
`config/jobs/windows.xml.erb` before falling back to the default
configuration, `config/jobs/default.xml.erb`. After updating or adding
a custom config, run `hubot ci setup` again to update the Jenkins
server.

Hacking
-------

Get your environment up and running:

    $ script/bootstrap

Create the databases:

    $ mysqladmin -uroot create janky_development
    $ mysqladmin -uroot create janky_test

Create the tables:

    $ RACK_ENV=development bin/rake db:migrate
    $ RACK_ENV=test bin/rake db:migrate

Seed some data into the development database:

    $ bin/rake db:seed

Start the server:

    $ script/server

Open the app:

    $ open http://localhost:9393/

Run the test suite:

    $ bin/rake

Contributing
------------

Fork the [Janky repository on GitHub](https://github.com/github/janky) and
send a Pull Request.

Copying
-------

Copyright © 2011, GitHub, Inc. See the `COPYING` file for license
rights and limitations (MIT).
